README.md, before:

# dpl_devops_training

This repository now tracks my DevOps practice in **date-wise folders** so you can review each day’s progress, artifacts, and supporting documents in one place. I’ll continue to mirror this structure for future evaluations and test projects you share in the same folders.

## 📂 Repository Structure

- `YYYY-MM-DD/` – A dedicated folder for that day’s work. Each contains:
  - `README.md` – the full daily report (study log, challenges, fixes, screenshots).
  - `images/` – screenshots embedded in the daily README.
  - Any practice assets (`user-data`, `meta-data`, `seed.iso`, scripts, etc.).

### Available Logs

| Date       | Highlights                                                          |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2025-12-26 | AWS course modules: **Auto Scaling**, **Block Storage**, **EC2 for Windows instance**, **OMT**, **Outpost Server**, and **Scale Out Computing**; screenshots added in `2025-12-26/` (images embedded in report). |
| 2025-12-24 | Continued AWS training: **AWS Build with EC2** and **AWS EC2 Basics**; captured part-wise screenshots and certificates in `2025-12-24/` (images embedded in report). |
| 2025-12-23 | Reviewed **AWS CSO** and **AWS EC2 (with lab)** courses; captured part-wise screenshots and certificates in `2025-12-23/` for evidence and reporting. |
| 2025-12-22 | Watched **~half** of the Amazon EC2 course (through Topic 6 — Launch Template); full course outline and video link added (`https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4dscVzCaXCU`); no screenshots — planning hands-on labs next; details in `2025-12-22/` |
| 2025-12-19 | AWS architecture course Modules 6–10 completed with detailed part-wise screenshots; certificate of completion saved; evidence in `2025-12-19/` |
| 2025-12-18 | AWS architecture course Modules 2–5 completed with detailed part-wise screenshots; STS course fully completed with certificate; evidence in `2025-12-18/` |
| 2025-12-17 | New AWS architecture course started (parts 1–16) plus STS segment; Rebel Capture – DPL Webcam Prototype repo reviewed and app UI screens captured; evidence in `2025-12-17/` |
| 2025-12-16 | AWS security course completion milestone documented with certificate screenshot; evidence in `2025-12-16/` |
| 2025-12-15 | Deep Dive with Security: AWS IAM course started (46% complete); IAM lab theory + 14-step hands-on completed with certificate; evidence in `2025-12-15/` |
| 2025-12-12 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials completed with certificate; Mastering AWS CDK completed with certificate; modules 10–13 evidence in `2025-12-12/` |
| 2025-12-11 | Video-only learning day: watched two YouTube sessions; skimmed *The Pragmatic Programmer* preface; no screenshots; evidence in `2025-12-11/` |
| 2025-12-10 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials Module 9 completed; Module 10 started; Mastering AWS CDK – Coding Cloud Architectures Modules 6–8 completed; rewatched Kubernetes microservices video; evidence in `2025-12-10/` |
| 2025-12-09 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials Modules 4–8 completed; Mastering AWS CDK Modules 4–5 completed; Kubernetes microservices fundamentals video (deployments, scaling, ingress); evidence in `2025-12-09/` |
| 2025-12-08 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials Modules 1–4 completed; Mastering AWS CDK Modules 1–3 completed; AWS CLI profile configured and CDK installed |
| 2025-12-05 | Advanced TypeScript Types: Optional properties, custom types, literal types and unions, type narrowing, utility types (Partial, Omit), and generics with practical pizza restaurant examples |
| 2025-12-04 | TypeScript basics (handbook), watched practical TS tutorial and built a small TypeScript practice project; images and artifacts added in `2025-12-04/` |
| 2025-12-03 | TypeScript Fundamentals (Basic & Everyday Types), Modern JavaScript Coursera Course (Module 1 completed), Multi-Tenant Chatbot Architecture Research |
| 2025-12-02 | Trunk-Based Development deep dive, Git merge strategies (fast-forward vs --no-ff), rebase vs merge, Git workflows (Gitflow, GitHub Flow, forking), reflog/recovery theory |
| 2025-12-01 | Advanced Git: Internals, Merge/Conflicts, Diff/Stashing, Rebase, GitHub + PRs, plus Gitflow workflow practice (manual checkout alternative) |
| 2025-11-28 | SSH connectivity lab across dual Ubuntu VMs, Git fundamentals kickoff |
| 2025-11-27 | NGINX Complete Tutorial: Static Content, Mime Types, Location Context, Rewrites, Load Balancing with Docker |
| 2025-11-26 | Linux Essentials Chapters 12-14, NGINX installation & setup, 65 commands |
| 2025-11-25 | Linux Essentials Chapters 7-12, Ubuntu VM installation, AL2 CLI practice (70+ commands) |
| 2025-11-24 | AWS Cloud Technical Essentials, Linux CLI practice, AL2 VM attempt  |
| 2025-11-21 | Amazon Linux 2 VirtualBox setup, cloud-init seed ISO, study summary |

navigate into the date folder you want to review—for example:

```
cd 2025-11-21
```

You’ll find the detailed README plus every artifact referenced.

## 🔗 Latest Live Projects

- `2025-12-4` — Meeting Room Booker (live): https://room-booker-dpl.vercel.app/  
  Source code: https://github.com/Hassan-asim/room-booker-dpl

Visit the `2025-12-4/` folder for the daily report, screenshots, and a short project summary.

## 🔄 Next Steps

- I’ll keep uploading new days exactly the same way.
- Feel free to drop evaluations or project briefs inside the relevant date folder; I’ll respond in-place.

Let me know if you’d prefer a different naming scheme or extra metadata (e.g., time logs, task checklists) in each folder.***

Commit message:

2025-12-29: Add EBS Course Certificates and Update README

README.md, after:

# dpl_devops_training

This repository now tracks my DevOps practice in **date-wise folders** so you can review each day’s progress, artifacts, and supporting documents in one place. I’ll continue to mirror this structure for future evaluations and test projects you share in the same folders.

## 📂 Repository Structure

- `YYYY-MM-DD/` – A dedicated folder for that day’s work. Each contains:
  - `README.md` – the full daily report (study log, challenges, fixes, screenshots).
  - `images/` – screenshots embedded in the daily README.
  - Any practice assets (`user-data`, `meta-data`, `seed.iso`, scripts, etc.).

### Available Logs

| Date       | Highlights                                                          |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2025-12-29 | **Certificates added:** EBS, EBS Performance Optimization, and Security Best Practices (PNG) saved in `2025-12-29/` — daily report created with evidence in `images/`. |
| 2025-12-26 | AWS course modules: **Auto Scaling**, **Block Storage**, **EC2 for Windows instance**, **OMT**, **Outpost Server**, and **Scale Out Computing**; screenshots added in `2025-12-26/` (images embedded in report). |
| 2025-12-24 | Continued AWS training: **AWS Build with EC2** and **AWS EC2 Basics**; captured part-wise screenshots and certificates in `2025-12-24/` (images embedded in report). |
| 2025-12-23 | Reviewed **AWS CSO** and **AWS EC2 (with lab)** courses; captured part-wise screenshots and certificates in `2025-12-23/` for evidence and reporting. |
| 2025-12-22 | Watched **~half** of the Amazon EC2 course (through Topic 6 — Launch Template); full course outline and video link added (`https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4dscVzCaXCU`); no screenshots — planning hands-on labs next; details in `2025-12-22/` |
| 2025-12-19 | AWS architecture course Modules 6–10 completed with detailed part-wise screenshots; certificate of completion saved; evidence in `2025-12-19/` |
| 2025-12-18 | AWS architecture course Modules 2–5 completed with detailed part-wise screenshots; STS course fully completed with certificate; evidence in `2025-12-18/` |
| 2025-12-17 | New AWS architecture course started (parts 1–16) plus STS segment; Rebel Capture – DPL Webcam Prototype repo reviewed and app UI screens captured; evidence in `2025-12-17/` |
| 2025-12-16 | AWS security course completion milestone documented with certificate screenshot; evidence in `2025-12-16/` |
| 2025-12-15 | Deep Dive with Security: AWS IAM course started (46% complete); IAM lab theory + 14-step hands-on completed with certificate; evidence in `2025-12-15/` |
| 2025-12-12 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials completed with certificate; Mastering AWS CDK completed with certificate; modules 10–13 evidence in `2025-12-12/` |
| 2025-12-11 | Video-only learning day: watched two YouTube sessions; skimmed *The Pragmatic Programmer* preface; no screenshots; evidence in `2025-12-11/` |
| 2025-12-10 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials Module 9 completed; Module 10 started; Mastering AWS CDK – Coding Cloud Architectures Modules 6–8 completed; rewatched Kubernetes microservices video; evidence in `2025-12-10/` |
| 2025-12-09 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials Modules 4–8 completed; Mastering AWS CDK Modules 4–5 completed; Kubernetes microservices fundamentals video (deployments, scaling, ingress); evidence in `2025-12-09/` |
| 2025-12-08 | AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials Modules 1–4 completed; Mastering AWS CDK Modules 1–3 completed; AWS CLI profile configured and CDK installed |
| 2025-12-05 | Advanced TypeScript Types: Optional properties, custom types, literal types and unions, type narrowing, utility types (Partial, Omit), and generics with practical pizza restaurant examples |
| 2025-12-04 | TypeScript basics (handbook), watched practical TS tutorial and built a small TypeScript practice project; images and artifacts added in `2025-12-04/` |
| 2025-12-03 | TypeScript Fundamentals (Basic & Everyday Types), Modern JavaScript Coursera Course (Module 1 completed), Multi-Tenant Chatbot Architecture Research |
| 2025-12-02 | Trunk-Based Development deep dive, Git merge strategies (fast-forward vs --no-ff), rebase vs merge, Git workflows (Gitflow, GitHub Flow, forking), reflog/recovery theory |
| 2025-12-01 | Advanced Git: Internals, Merge/Conflicts, Diff/Stashing, Rebase, GitHub + PRs, plus Gitflow workflow practice (manual checkout alternative) |
| 2025-11-28 | SSH connectivity lab across dual Ubuntu VMs, Git fundamentals kickoff |
| 2025-11-27 | NGINX Complete Tutorial: Static Content, Mime Types, Location Context, Rewrites, Load Balancing with Docker |
| 2025-11-26 | Linux Essentials Chapters 12-14, NGINX installation & setup, 65 commands |
| 2025-11-25 | Linux Essentials Chapters 7-12, Ubuntu VM installation, AL2 CLI practice (70+ commands) |
| 2025-11-24 | AWS Cloud Technical Essentials, Linux CLI practice, AL2 VM attempt  |
| 2025-11-21 | Amazon Linux 2 VirtualBox setup, cloud-init seed ISO, study summary |

navigate into the date folder you want to review—for example:

```
cd 2025-11-21
```

You’ll find the detailed README plus every artifact referenced.

## 🔗 Latest Live Projects

- `2025-12-4` — Meeting Room Booker (live): https://room-booker-dpl.vercel.app/  
  Source code: https://github.com/Hassan-asim/room-booker-dpl

Visit the `2025-12-4/` folder for the daily report, screenshots, and a short project summary.

## 🔄 Next Steps

- I’ll keep uploading new days exactly the same way.
- Feel free to drop evaluations or project briefs inside the relevant date folder; I’ll respond in-place.

Let me know if you’d prefer a different naming scheme or extra metadata (e.g., time logs, task checklists) in each folder.***
